---
title: "Job challenged his friends' words and appeal to God"
description: "Job 13"
categories: [job]
image: assets/images/1920px-The_Bible_panorama,_or_The_Holy_Scriptures_in_picture_and_story_(1891)_(14761939436).jpg
focus-verse: ""
---

Job rebuke his friends for what they have said. They assumed he doesn't know God, and they were confident in their ability to speak for God, that's why have to describe God to him. They also assumed that he sinned, that's why he was punished, he was misrepresented. Their words and their wisdom had no substance, Job dismissed their words as mere ashes. Job wants to reason with God as he could not understand his situation.

Job did not understand his situation and felt that God was against him, and yet he will continue to trust in God (v15). During such trouble times, when real faith is created, when God tests and affirms our faith, when we can grow our faith in him. Job believes that he was blameless and upright, and he believed that God would agree that he was too.

Job requested God to stop these troubles, and he wanted to be left alone. He felt abandoned. He wanted to restore his connection and communication with God. Job was sure about his innocence, despite the sufferings and what his friends said. Thus he asked God to show him his sins, and wanted God to reply to him. Again, he long to communicate with God.

- I guess we can't take people's words to heart, we can only seek God to seek answers.
- Such tough times like this, can grow our faith, if we seek God
- Seek God, communicate and pled with God to seek our answers