---
title: "Zophar criticizes Job for his complaining and suggested him to repent"
kicker: "Job 11"
categories: [job]
image: assets/images/Seghersjob.jpg
focus-verse: ""
---

Zophar feels that Job is just someone who talks a lot and complains a lot (vs3-talker), and should someone like him be vindicated? Because all 3 of his friends thinks that it must be some sin in his life, but he denied it. Zophar tells Job that he actually deserves far worse from God. We know Job is blameless (Job 1-2). Likewise, Zophar is based on his analysis, and it did not true for Job's circumstance.

Zophar thinks that Job lack understanding of God authority (v7-9). That whoever God has determined, "who can oppose him?" (v10). Zophar believed that the only thing for Job to do was to accept his punishment. God "recognizes deceivers" (v11), implying that Job is a deceiver.

Zophar suggested Job to repent, devote to God, seek God's mercy and goodness; and let God will lift him up, bless him, restore him. But if he dont, the consequences is, cannot escape God's wrath, will fall.

In general, Job's friends generally correct about God. God is just and righteous. God is almighty. God can forgive, God can punish. They believe and know that is how God works. But they wrong in Job's case, they are based on their understanding and determined Job's situations.

- people around us might speak what they think, and it may not be true
- God is just, if we seek him with all our hearts him and repent, he will forgive and lift us up